Okay, so now that we've got the slug
being read from the query or from the query string
and we're able to kinda fetch
the specific data for that page,
the next thing we wanna do is actually make the URLs
really nice and clean,
so it means going from this,
session question mark slug equals memory,
to just session slash memory,
or whatever the actual slug is.
Now, this certainly isn't prerequisite,
it's not required,
but it does make the URLs look nice,
and they're kind of,
they're more easy to kind of guess
and manually enter if I was visiting this website.
So the way that we do this is,
oh, actually, the slide is there.
We add this as property to the link element.
So the next link element supports this natively.
You add the as property
with the nice clean URL you want to work,
and it should just work.
So let's give that a try.
I'm gonna do as equals session
and then slug,
hit save,
get onto the home page,
and I'm just gonna browse.
So you can't quite see it,
down at the bottom of the page,
it does actually have this clean URL,
and there we go,
session slash my password doesn't work.
And that's all we need to do
to get it working on the client side.
The problem is when we hit refresh,
we get a 404.
Now, the reason for this is because on the server side,
the server is parsing this URL,
and to do that,
it's looking for a page,
or a directory called session
and a page, .js file,
called my password doesn't work.
It doesn't have any mapping that says that actually
we need to map session colon
to a particular kind of a page.
So we wanna map it to this page, right?
So that's why it works in the browser
because it has it locally already,
but when it comes to the server side,
it doesn't have it.
It doesn't have any mapping.
So we need to fix that,
and the way that we fix that
is that we are going to introduce our own next server, okay?
So this is when we start kind of unbuckling
from all the default config that next provides.
So...
I have a link in the slides
to a Minimal server that will serve up your next project.
So it uses Express for the kind of regular routing
and you can copy and paste the whole thing
and it should just work.
So I'm gonna grab this.
Oops, all the way down to the bottom.
And there's a script change to be made, as well.
But I'm gonna pop this into server.js
in the root of the project.
Okay?
And these are squiggle words
because I've set it up as a next project rather than node.
And I'm gonna stop my dev server,
and in package,
instead of dev being next,
it's actually gonna be node server.js,
and I've got the same thing here, node server.js.
So I've added the node env production
just so that when the server runs,
this dev flag is false.
So when we run our own server,
when we call the next function
and pass in dev true or false,
it means that the hot module reload is all there,
the website, it does all that work if dev is true,
and if dev is false, it won't be there.
We'll just use the compiled next project.
So let's do npm run dev.
Check the server looks okay.
Pretty straightforward.
So just a few bits here.
Regular express server, okay?
The, this is the next app handler
and this is the routing handler for next.
We do app .prepare,
and prepare has to do with the dev mode.
If dev is false, then it doesn't do this at all.
And then once it's ready,
we start our express server
and we basically say all requests,
all get requests are sent to this handler here,
which is the next handler,
and then we listen for port 2000,
and once that is in place,
we're able to,
we'll then add our own router
to deal with these URLs, okay?
So just hit refresh.
We get the same error,
but this is the part we're gonna fix, okay?
So then off to the server,
and we're gonna do server.get,
and we do session slug, okay?
Request res.
And then we are going to do
pass into res.handle.
Excuse me, not into res.handle.
We're going to do app.render.
So we actually need this code.
So we're gonna grab,
express has this property called params
which it kind of maps each one of these into,
so .slug should be in there,
and we're going to pass,
we'll do app.render,
which is part of next,
we'll pass in the original request response
and we give it the URL
and this is the query string here.
So if we hit save now,
we need to go off to our server and restart it,
and I'll come onto kind of restarting in a moment.
And go home.
Let's try one of these
and hit refresh.
Fetch has not fired.
So we got
an error.
Sessions...
Of course,
because it wasn't on the server side.
So I'll do import fetch from isomorphic-unfetch,
save, stop, start, load.
That might have recompiled, actually.
I think it recompiles.
Refresh.
There we go.
So that was a full server request to that URL.
Okay?
So we now have nice URLs working,
so you can see the network requests here,
so a real document request with the content,
and that is due to us running a custom server.
And this is where we have to start adding
kind of our extra routes to make this work.
And there is a whole bunch of extra things
that kind of happen,
that can happen inside of the route,
so I'm gonna look at those in the next videos,
things like,
there are some libraries that help routing
to make it a lot easier
so you don't have to manage it here.
There are techniques that I have come to use
during development when I need the server side
to kinda keep fresh,
keep fresh and kinda keep it running, restarting.
And there's some gotchas in this, as well.
But at the very minimum,
that gist will give you a basic express server,
and then you just have to add in
your individual request handlers.
And obviously from here,
you could start adding post handlers, put handlers,
and so on inside of your server,
and now you have a fully dynamic back end server.
Now, literally express, sorry,
next is virtually exactly the same
except for this line we've added.
So we've just gone ahead
and constructed the server ourselves
and then just added one piece of kind of middleware
to kind of handle the mapping URLs.
Otherwise it is exactly the same as it was before.
You did actually see me,
as the server's running at the moment,
I will just make a small change to this
to say h1 session.title.
I guess it's in here twice.
But I'll hit save
and you can see it's doing a recompile
and you can see that h1 has happened there.
So any of your react components will be recompiled
and live injected back into the page.
The only thing that won't be recompiled
or refreshed is this back end here
because the server is running,
and you'll need to look at tools like nodemon
or kinda some of the other tools
that I'll show you later on, okay?